---
---
{% include neic2015/workshop.wiki %} 

== Agenda ==
Presentations are accessible from the links below.

* 09.00. Welcome, around the table, 10 min
* 09.10. What is a federation? David Simonsen, 15 min
* 09.25. Policy coordination, evolving models of global trust fabrics and the federation operations David Groep, 15 min
* 09.40. Credential repositories and CERN STS (slides included in presentation above)
* 09.50. On-going and coming projects  David Simonsen, 5 min
* 09.55. AARC, EU research and collaboration David Groep, 10 min
* 10.05. Code of Conduct Mikael Linden, 10 min
* 10.15. FIM4R - Federated Identity Management 4 Research Mikael Linden, 10 min
* 10.25. Trends in federation architecture David Simonsen, 10 min

== Abstract ==
The 'Grids' were established more than a decade ago with a specific goal in
focus: access management for very expensive compute- and storage pools available
only for high-energy physics (HEP). The chosen technology is non-web, namely
X.509 certificates. Large investments have been made in secure and highly
trust-worthy policy frameworks that work well for this particular group of
experts. It has so far not been possible to reach a level of usability where
user groups outside the HEP community are also able to access the scientific
resources connected to the Grids.

'Federations' are large scale web-based infrastructures that build on entire
institutional user management directory services and therefore typically covers
all users at any connected institution. The federation policies, which appear to
almost always to have national coverage (as opposed to e.g. a international
scientific community like HEP) have been written to encompass many institutions
and many different use cases, typically for lower-end services like learning
management systems, publishers etc. Hence the broader scope and the generally
lower requirements for identity proofing than seen in the Grid-community. The
technology is predominantly XML-based protocols like SAML.

The task is now to harvest the benefits from both worlds, the Grids and the
federations: maintain the high degree of trust in user identity management and
access control policies established by the Grids while at the same time provide
the wealth of services and breadth of the federated user bases of the
federations.

One idea would be to establish services that translate X.509 certificates into
SAML-assertions and vice versa. Another may be to re-combine existing
infrastructure components like project Moonshot which aims a federating non-web
services based on existing services like eduroam and web based federations.

Your suggestion is as good as anyone's and warmly welcomed.
