---
---
{% include neic2015/workshop.wiki %}

== Abstract ==
Accelerators like NVIDIA CUDA and Intel MIC processors are increasingly relevant
for production systems. Large scale production systems employ both NVDIA cuda
and Intel MIC type processors (FPGA adaptation is too small to be considered in
this workshop).

We know that major installations like Oak Ridge laboratory and Lawrence
Livermore are pursuing the accelerator performance. While the theoretical
performance is outstanding it has proven hard to utilise this performance for
general production codes and even more so for legacy codes. Many of us are faced
with a large fraction of such legacy codes and the need for tools like general
purpose compilers are still unsatisfied. While openACC and openMP 4.0 are steps
forward they still require change of the source code.

The workshop will focus on assessing the current situation around the sites, it
would be beneficial if a representative from each relevant site could give a few
minutes overview addressing the point below :

* Installed hardware, planned installment and planned procurement of accelerators.
* Current usage, applications using accelerators, tools like compilers etc.
* Work in progress to utilize accelerators using installed hardware and planned new hardware.
* Experience with accelerators.

The discussion should focus on how to address the situation with accelerators.
Should future systems be fully accelerated or should accelerators be a small
subset of exotic hardware attached ? The performance offered by the accelerators
are tantalizing,and if harvested it would give significantly higher scientific
production for comparatively less investment (at least in hardware).

The institutions like the US ones above are putting a lot of focus on tools that
let the users have easy access to accelerator performance using standards like
OpenACC, OpenMP 4.0 etc. Is this an option for Nordic sites ? If one decide to
go all out using accelerators one must be prepared to do a major investment in
tools, training and user support to exploit the accelerator hardware, including
major rewrite of many applications.

On the other hard – are accelerators just a hype ? Will the future look like
convergence between current x86-64 and MIC architectures ? Or maybe just more
powerful MICs ? Or CUDA type massively threaded accelerators ?
