---
---
{% include neic2015/workshop.wiki %}

== Live Streaming ==
NeIC 2015 Conference Live Streaming page

This workshop is live streamed to YouTube and will be accessible from there.

== Agenda ==
Presentations are accessible using the links below.

* 13:30-13:40: Welcome and agenda, Gard Thomassen, USIT
* 13:40-14:00: Safely across borders: a legal perspective on using sensitive data in cross-border research setting, Marjut Salokannel, SaReCo Oy
* 14:00-14:20: Combination of Nordic health data registries, biobanks and advanced eScience tools for improved cancer prevention: The Nordic Information for Action eScience Center of Excellence (NIASC), Davit Bzhalava, NIASC
* 14:20-14:40: ePouta - Secure Cloud Computing, Jura Tarus, CSC
* 14:40-15:00: Tryggve project developing services for sensitive biomedical data: Call for Nordic use cases, Antti Pursula, NeIC
* 15:00-15:30: Break
* 15:30-15:50: Mosler, Peter Ankerstål, UPPMAX
* 15:50-16:00: TSD, Gard Thomassen, USIT
* 16:00-16:20: Software provisioning Inside a Secure Environment as Docker Containers: Experience, issues, and lessons learned, Abdulrahman Azab, USIT
* 16:20-16:30: Risk assessment, Gard Thomassen, USIT
* 16:30-17:00: All questions asked, some answered... Plenum

== Abstract ==
Serving research communities with storage, high-performance computing and
software has until recently been dominated by IT-infrastructure for data with no
privacy constraints. Projects with sensitive information (health, sex, religion,
etc) have in general been small and hosted by offline desktops or within
clinically approved hospital networks. The already present genomic data deluge
combined with increased use of high definition images (fmri etc), video, sound
and not at least the possibility of online data-harvesting (of sensitive data)
covering thousands of respondents have changed the picture.

This workshop will try to cover many aspects of the challenges that follows
these new and vast demands. The list of topics covered will include but not be
restricted to :

* What is sensitive data
* User requirements vs IT-security
* Authorization and Authentication
* Harvesting sensitive data
* HPC for sensitive data
* Sharing sensitive data
* Storing and archiving sensitive data
* Registry data online
* Initiatives in the Nordics to meet the demands
* Coming solutions and challenges

This workshop is for anyone who does or plans to serve user groups having
sensitive data, or for any member of these existing or coming user groups. We
will try to enlighten you with regarding infrastructure initiatives, existing
solutions, infrastructure architecture and caveats, solution planning and a
small tour into the rules and regulations that systems must meet. Although these
regulations are not in any way updated to face the reality of researchers being
able to map the full genome of tens of people on one single sequencer in a
matter of 6 days.
