---
---
{% include neic2015/workshop.wiki %}

== Agenda ==
* 09.00 - 09.10   Welcome by Chair, Nordic Committee on Bioethics

'''Nature of issues'''<br/>
Moderator: Gunhild Isfeld
* 09.10 - 09.40   Genetic information and research: Questions, concerns and lessons learnt Linda Laatikainen, the Finnish Institute for Molecular Research (FIMM)
* 09.40 - 10.10   "Using sensitive data in population based health research: A researcher's perspective", Gun Peggy Knudsen, Norwegian Institute of Public Health
* 10.10 - 10.40   "Dynamic communication with the donor population - ethical, legal and technical perspectives", Kristian Hveem, Norwegian University of Science and Technology

10.40 - 11.00    Break

'''Legal, philosophical and ethical perspectives'''<br/>
Moderator; Arnar Palsson
* 11.00 - 11.20   "Privacy as an ethical and philosophical challenge", Salvor Nordal, Center for Ethics in the University of Iceland
* 11.20 - 11.40   "Philosophical perspectives", Thomas Ploug, University of Århus
* 11.40 - 12.00   The Silent Revolution: How Iceland quietely moved from time-limits and consent, for confidential medical data research, to permanent storage and subsequent use without consent Hörður Helgi Helgason, Partner, Landslög Law Offices, Iceland

== Abstract ==
The handling, security and use of data have become more important than ever due
to implementation of internet and new technologies. Reports of identity theft
and leaking of sensitive information are commonly discussed in the context of
private businesses. However, it is important to discuss the role and ethics of
data accumulation and sharing also in the public sector. For example, in 2004
U.S. FDA approved chip for storing medical information within a human body
(VeriChip). Similarly, genotyping of humans is nowadays prevalent in medical
research. Still, many questions about the storing and sharing of the data remain
either unresolved or unrecognized, even by those conducting the research.

In 2012, the European Committee of Ethics and Emerging Technologies (EGE)
published a report about ICT-ethics, in which it paid attention to issues
related to sensitive data and its usage in the public realm on the level of
European Union. This session is organized to raise awareness about the ethical
and legal issues in relation to sensitive data storing/sharing especially in the
Nordic countries. The issues include informed consent of the citizens,
controlling access to data in public institutions, and working with research
ethics committees, to ensure that all parties have their say in the process.

The target audiences for this event are both practitioners and public officials
who are involved in shaping the relevant laws, regulations and policies mainly
in relation to storing sensitive medical information. We focus on who will have
access to sensitive medical data (occupational health care, other public and
private health care operators), what kind of information is stored, in which
kind of context it is used, etc. It may well be the case that data contains
information that is either inconvenient for persons themselves, or can be used
in assistance of health care rationing and resource allocation. Furthermore, it
is important to discuss the ways how data is disseminated among the parties
conducting the research (especially in the case the research is multi-centered,
having also commercial interests).
