---
---
{% include neic2015/workshop.wiki %}

== Agenda ==
Presentations are accessible from the links in the agenda.

* 0900-0905: Welcome (Prof. Eivind Hovig, Oslo University Hospital)
* 0905-0920: Introduction to Galaxy (Dr. Sveinung Gundersen, ELIXIR.NO, University of Oslo)
* 0920-0940: Lessons learned from 8 years of developing The Genomic HyperBrowser on top of Galaxy (Dr. Sveinung Gundersen, ELIXIR.NO, University of Oslo)
* 0940-0950: National e-Infrastructure for Life Science [NeLS], including presentation of a simple RNA-seq workflow (Dr. Sveinung Gundersen, ELIXIR.NO, University of Oslo)
* 0950-1005: Lessons learned from developing complex workflows within Galaxy (Ghislain Fornous, Oslo University Hospital)
* 1005-1020: Running Galaxy in an HPC environment (Dr. Nikolay Vazov, USIT, University of Oslo)
* 1020-1030: Running Galaxy on interconnected HPC sites using ARC (Abdulrahman Azab, ELIXIR.NO, University of Oslo)

1030-1100: Coffee break

* 1100-1115: Running Galaxy in a secure environment using Docker (Abdulrahman Azab, ELIXIR.NO, University of Oslo)
* 1115-1130: Chipster vs Galaxy, and how to interact (Aleksi Kallio, CSC - IT Center for Science, Finland)
* 1130-1145: Using Galaxy for proteomics analyses (Dr. Jorrit Boekel, Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences, Sweden)
* 1145-1230: Discussion (Prof. Eivind Hovig, Oslo University Hospital)

== Abstract ==
Galaxy is an open source, web-based platform for data intensive research,
presently primarily in the biomedical domain. Main benefits include
reproducibility, transparency, and sharing across a multitude of biological
inquiries, with many options for customization and access.

It is supported by a very active developer community, and sports a large number
of tools and workflows/pipelines across biology. There is increasing activity
and usage in this environment within Europe and also in the Nordic setting.

The workshop aims to bring together interested parties and competence in the
Nordic region, to identify areas of common interest, develop collaboration, and
sharing of resources and competence for furthering and broadening the activity.

Various tools and systems will be presented, from genomic scale analyses to
solutions for deep sequencing applications.

This workshop is for anyone who has an interest in Galaxy, reproducible
computation and/or sharing biology workflows.


